(upbeat music)
All right, now we're gonna get into the order page,
and everything so far has been website-y,
but sometimes you need a little bit,
this is the part where it gets a little bit more app-y,
where we'll be able to list out all the pizzas that we have.
You can add the pizzas to your order.
You can type in your name and your email.
You can remove things from your order,
and it will also give you your total.
So how this is gonna work
is that this is just a regular form
where it's done in React.
And then when somebody submits it,
we just take the data about their order,
and then we send that off via email.
So, this is just a glorified contact form.
There's no like, Domino's Pizza tracker behind this
or anything too crazy,
but it just takes your order and sends it off to an email.
And in order to send that email, that's like backend, right?
And we don't really have a backend with this.
So, we will be using server-less functions.
I'm gonna show you how to get a sip of the server
if you need it in a Gatsby website.
So, first thing we wanna do
is let's go over to our order page,
and let's make a,
we're actually, we're just gonna code most of it directly,
right inside of this page.
You can move it out into your own component
if you need to reuse it.
So, first thing you wanna do is,
we gotta go to our regular order page.
We've gotta fix this title.
We'll put that on our list for something to do
in the future.
And then we will replace this paragraph tag with a form tag.
Then, we'll take, get rid of the action.
Now, inside of this,
we need a couple of different field sets.
A field set for the first one,
which is your name and email.
A second field set for your menu.
And a third field set for your order.
I like using field sets because you can disable
entire groups of fields with them at once,
as well as it's just a pretty slick way
to group together inputs.
Field set; and then in here, we'll say legend.
Say your info.
Give yourself another field set,
which says menu.
And then the third one that says, order.
Save. Okay, we got our info, our menu, and our order.
So, let's work our way from top to bottom.
So first one, your info.
We need to have a label
that is for our name.
Let's say, name,
and then we'll have an input below it
with the type of text,
and a name of name.
And then the, well,
the value in the onChange, we'll hook up in just a second,
but just go ahead and duplicate that,
and then change the name to email.
I guess this is name.
And type is email here.
That won't be capital E.
Right, so this is the first thing that we need to encounter,
is if you type into this, you'll see React
is gonna yell at us.
Oh, and it's not yelling at us just yet.
But if we wanna be able to save our data to state,
when it gets typed into an input box,
we need to correspond that with some state.
So, normally the way that works
is you say something like this, like const, name,
and setName is equal to useState.
And we'll set it, default it to nothing.
And then we'll import useState from React, right?
So we import the hook useState, and then we create it.
And when somebody types into this input here,
we say the value is equal to name.
And then onChange.
Here, let me show you the error that comes up
if you just do this.
Watch. If you type into it now, nothing is popping up.
And you get all these errors from React,
saying a component changing an uncontrolled input of text
should not to be controlled.
Input elements should not switch from uncontrolled
to control or vice versa.
Okay, so what that means is that you cannot
put state into an input in React
without having a plan of attack for what happens
when somebody types into here.
So normally what we have to do is say onChange
when that happens.
Maybe do pass the event.
And then we say, setName e.target.value.
And now we should be able to type. There we are.
Now we're able to type into it.
And what happens is that when somebody types into it,
we take the event and we run our set name function,
and put it into that.
Now, that's okay.
But what happens when you have, seven or eight,
or 15 different inputs?
Having to create new state,
and update our function for absolutely every single one
can get a little bit out of hand.
And there's whole libraries out there.
Formik is a really popular one
for do dealing with forms in React.
But what I like to do in most of my forms in React
is just to make myself a custom little hook called useForm.
And let's actually stick that
in its own file because it is a reusable one
that we'll wanna use throughout the entire thing.
So we'll go into our utils folder.
And this is the first time we're using utils.
And we'll say useForm.js,
and we'll import useState from React.
And here we'll make a, well, then we'll export it.
Export default useForm.
Okay, I put a function in front of it.
And that will take in some defaults.
And then inside of here, we're making,
this is our own custom hook.
So, we'll say const, values and setValues
is equal to useState.
And we'll set the defaults that get passed in, okay?
Oh, not default. Defaults with an s on it.
Next what we'll need to do
is make a function like an updater function.
So function, updateValue.
That takes in that event, and then run set values.
And normally, like we did right here.
Normally, we just say setName and pass it the actual value.
But because this useForm is going to take an object
instead of just a single value,
we need to spread the existing values into it
and then update the new one.
So we'll say setValues.
And then this right here
is copy the existing values into it.
So, ...values.
So again, that's everything that is currently in state,
and then update the new value that changed.
So, what value?
Like, if somebody types into name,
we wanna update the name property
to be e.target.value, right?
But we can't hard code name or email or anything else.
So what we can do is maybe make that part dynamic.
Just say e.target.name.
And what happens there is we take the name attribute
of the input.
It's a little bit confusing ' cause it's also name,
but we take the name attribute of the input,
and set it to be the value of what the user typed.
And we make that totally dynamic.
And that will work for all of our values that we have here.
And then finally from this hook,
we need to return the values,
which is our state, and then our update value,
property that we have here.
One other thing that I like to do here
is I'll sometimes check if it's a number, and convert.
Because I've used this little hook here many times over.
And if you have an input with the type of number,
it comes in as a string,
and then you it to state and it's a string.
You're expecting a number.
So what we do here is we'll just say, let value is equal to,
or just let value.
We'll create the variable. And we'll say if or no.
No, no, no. We'll do this.
Let value is equal to e.target.value.
Now we'll go down here and just say it's a value.
And then we'll say,
if the e.target.type is equal to a number,
value is equal to parseInt e.target volume.
And what that does is it just checks if,
oh, I changed it to de-structuring here,
but it checks if the type is the number,
then forces it to be an actual number
before you go ahead and set it.
So, we aren't using that here,
but if you're gonna be reusing this useForm hook
in other projects,
I know that that's something I always like to add
to my own custom hook.
Okay, so we've created our own custom hook here.
What you need to do is hop back into our order.js.
And we'll take this here, this useState, and delete it.
And we will say const, curly bracket, value.
So, it's no longer square bracket.
And the reason is because we're returning an object here.
Values and updateValues is equal to useForm,
and then we'll pass it the default,
where the name's gonna be empty.
And the email is also gonna be empty.
So you have to explicitly set the default values
of whatever inputs you have.
Otherwise React whines about you creating
a new value in there.
Okay, so, then we can take our values here
and go down to here, our input.
And say the value is equal to values.name,
and the onChange is going to simply be.
What did we call it? updateValues.
So let's see if that, useForm is not defined.
Oh, I forgot to import useForm.
There it goes. So it imported the hook right there.
So now I should be able to type into here.
Not working. Okay.
Let's clear up the errors here
and we give it a whole refresh.
What is it yelling at us? Failed prompt type.
You provide a value prop to your form field
without an onChange handler.
What? I did, I did.
Okay, so let's debug this.
So I'm gonna take the email out of the equation entirely.
Just so I know I'm working with one.
Okay. Same error's popping up.
So now my question is,
is our values and updateValues
actually being returned from that function?
Let's try. Okay, so we're getting, there we go.
We get our actual object, but the second value's undefined.
So, it's complaining that this onChange
is not actually a function, which it's not.
It says undefined.
So let's go back to our form here.
And we have our function, update function.
Did I spell that wrong?
Yeah. I put an s on it.
So, let's change that.
Anywhere you have put updateValues,
just take the s off.
And now I should be able to, there we go.
Now I'm able to type into it.
We can go a little bit further and inspect
with React on this sucker.
And, we have our hook, which is the form.
And there we go. You see the state.
Sorry it's a little bit small, but you see ERT.
If I were to type wes into here,
you see state is automatically updating with that hook,
which is awesome.
Then we should be able to use this same hook
with our email input.
So I'll go, value is equal to values.email,
and onChange is equal to updateValue.
Now I should be able to type to this.
You see that. It's updating right to state.
And I love that because if for some reason
you wanted to add, like a coupon input
or something like that,
we could simply just go input, type of text,
name equals coupon, value equals values.coupon,
and onChange is equal to updateValue.
Then we would go to our default, say coupon.
You can even set default here, FREESHIP.
And here we go.
It's by default shows up right in here.
Should be rendered a state,
but I should be able to mirror that directly to state.
That's a nice small example of a hook that is custom,
but also cuts down on a lot of, sort of boiler plate code.
I'll get rid of that.
We don't actually have coupons here,
so we can get rid of that.
All right, so that's the first part,
which is our name and your email.
The second part is the menu.
So we need to loop over all of our pizzas
and list them out with their photo,
as well as the prices for the different sizes.
So let's go to the menu here.
So how do we get all of our pizzas?
Well, in our case, we can,
we could use any query that we have here.
We could use a page query 'cause we're on a page,
but we could also use static query,
because there's no specific variable that gets set to it.
So I'm gonna use the page query here.
So, actually we can just go into pizzas.js.
We queried all the pizzas here.
Could we import this query from another page?
I've never done this with Gatsby.
I've never like, import it. So let's see.
Can we import a query from another page,
and then export it from here?
I don't think so, because the way that Gatsby works
is that it turns your queries into numbers, but let's see.
So if we go up here and import query.
Is that we named it? Yeah.
From. Pizzas.
And then if I console log
the query, yeah,
you see it calls the logs a number.
I don't think that will work,
but we can try.
I'll just export query. We could also import.
And import and export it all at once.
I think we just say export query from pizzas.
Let's try it.
So what I did there is I just imported and exported
the query from this one
in a single line.
That's part of JavaScript.
That's not special Gatsby or anything.
So now my question is,
is does this page have the pizza data as well?
So we'll go to our React components, go to our order page.
Doesn't look like it. Does not look like it.
We got our location.
We would have, like a data prop here
if we actually had data here.
So, no, unfortunately that does not work.
So we'll just go down here,
and export const query is equal to graphql.
We'll import graphql, and then query pizzas.
It's allSanityPizza, and for each node,
we want the name, the ID, the slug.
We don't care about the slug, do we?
Let's grab it just in case. It's not that expensive.
Actually, it's not expensive at all,
'cause it runs at build time.
It's kind of nice thing about Gatsby
is you don't have to worry about fetching too much data,
because that just happens at build time.
It doesn't happen on your pages, your user's page load,
which is cool.
We want the price of the pizza
and the image, asset, fluid, max width.
We're gonna want 100 px on this image here.
And then we use the ...GatsbySanityImageFluid.
That's referred to as a fragment, again.
Those ..., in our case.
Okay. There we go.
See, I just saved that,
and all of a sudden this data with the pizzas showed up.
So, and there we go.
There's all of our pizzas. Looking good; cool.
So we can go into the second set under menu
and start to loop over those pizzas.
So right here, curly brackets,
pizzas, oh it's not pizzas, is it?
We have to de-structure our data in here,
and I'll say const pizzas
is equal to data.pizzas.nodes.
Up here, so we can have a nice, clean variable.
Objects are not valid as.
Sorry, you can hear my kids playing hide and seek
in the background.
Pizzas.map, pizza.
Use parenthesis there.
We'll have a div.
We'll replace that with a style in just a second.
The key is equal to the pizza.id, and inside of that,
we'll have a Gatsby image.
We'll get that in a second.
Let's just get the div,
and put an h2 inside of it with the pizza.name.
Let's make sure we can actually just show everything up.
Okay. So there's all our pizzas.
Let's work on getting the image to show up next.
So go to the top of your file.
Import Img from Gatsby image.
And then we'll go right above here.
Img, fluid is equal to pizza.image.asset.fluid.
Here we go.
And then we also wanna put a width of 50 on it
and a height of 50 on it.
The reason why I queried it at 100 by 100
is so that it will look crisp
on high resolution screens: 4K monitors, iPhones,
retina displays, things like that.
We'll talk about that when we hit styling.
It's not constraining itself, but that's okay.
Next step, oh, we should put an alt on there
before we forget.
So alt is equal to pizza.name. Okay.
This is bothering me.
A form label must be associated with a control.
Oh, you gotta put an ID.
Is that gonna make it happy?
Why is this?
A form label must be associated with a control.
It's like you don't know why something is breaking.
You just Google the rule you're breaking,
and it will show you an example of how to actually do it.
So, label, sibling control, html4, okay.
Using the ID to associate the controls. That's what I did.
ID, it's got the name. ID is equal to email.
Still yelling at me.
All right. Well, that's what it says it's supposed to do.
Check the answer.
And someone will pull a request or whatever
if we find the actual issue.
I don't wanna put the input inside of the label.
I'm gonna leave that for now.
Since I can't figure it out, that's fine.
Okay. So, we've got our pizza showing up.
Next thing that we need to do is to display the prices
in buttons for each one of those.
So, let's go right below this div here
with the pizza name,
and give ourselves another div.
And we're gonna loop over the sizes of an array of small,
medium, and large, and we'll map over each of those sizes.
And for each one, we will return a button
with a type of button,
and inside of that button
will be a size.
Let's see what we got here.
What's wrong with that? Unexpected comma.
We are missing the parentheses. There we go.
So now we've buttons: small, medium, large.
All right, now let's do price.
So my idea with price is that the price that we have
attached to the pizza is a medium.
And then the small and the large can be calculated
based off of that price.
So to do that, let's go and make a utility function.
So let's go into our utils folder,
make a new file, and let's call it calculatePizzaPrice.js.
We'll export default function, calculatePizzaPrice.
And that will take in the cents and the size.
And then up here,
let's just say const sizes is equal to,
small is going to be 0.75.
So quarter of, or three quarters of the price.
Medium is going to be the price that it is.
And large will be 1.25 the price.
And then from this, we just return the what?
The cents multiplied by the sizes, square bracket, size.
This is what I love so much about ES modules is, like,
I just created this.
And this is by default scoped to this module.
So I didn't need to, like, create a closure
or anything like that.
I could just declare this little piece of JavaScript
inside of the file,
and then it will be accessible anywhere within this module.
We'll go back to our order here, and beside the size,
let's do the price.
So we'll say pizza.price.
Let's just get it showing up.
Okay. And then we can calculatePizzaPrice.
Pass it the price, as well as the size.
And then we'll have to import that function.
Boom, there we go.
Let's just check it. Import, right there, good.
And here we go. So it's 1092, 1456, 1820.
Okay, so they're all going up and down.
Now in order to get them to format nicely,
we need to create another utility function
called format money.
So let's go into our utils folder here
and make a formatMoney.js.
And we need to first make a number formatter.
So we'll say const formatter is equal to Intl.NumberFormat.
And I am gonna say en-CA.
You can put en-US, or wherever, whatever country
and locale you are from.
Let's say style, currency. Did we do this already?
I feel like we've done this already.
Maybe that was a different course.
Nope, no, that was, that was a different course.
Okay. So this right here, Intl.NumberFormat.
This is built into the browser as well as node js.
And it's built in for a formatting currency,
which is really, really good.
Then we say, currency is going to be, I'm going to say CAD.
You could do USD or again, any whatever,
whatever format that you want.
So that's kind of interesting.
This right here is, will tell you
where to put the commas and decimals.
And this right here is, it will actually format it
as a currency.
It won't convert or anything for you,
but it will format it as that country's currency
needs to be formatted.
And again, this will put the, I don't know, in Europe,
you use decimals where you should use commas
and commas where you should use decimals,
which is weird, but whatever.
So export default function formatMoney.
That takes in cents.
And then we are going to return our formmatter.format.
And normally we just say cents
but because we want it to format as dollars.
Here, let me show you what happens here.
So. let's go back to our order,
and let's wrap this in formatMoney.
Okay. And then we've gotta import formatMoney from that.
Here we go. See, $1,000 for a pizza.
It's obviously too much. We need to divide that by 100.
So we'll go back to our formatMoney,
and cents divided by 100.
Boom. That's looking good.
I think we should stop there for this video.
This video is getting a little bit long.
We'll just pick it up in the next video
with some styling, I think.